Rule: Text spacing via CSS is above minimum value or not set to `!important` (24afc2, 78fd32, 9e45ec) (#1412)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/letter-spacing-not-important-24afc2.md

---
id: 24afc2
name: Letter spacing in `style` attributes is not `!important`
rule_type: atomic
description: |

>   This rule checks that the letter spacing can be adjusted by the user, i.e. that `!important` is not applied to the style, unless the style has already exceeded the specified metric for retaining content visibility and functionality.

Reviewer: I'm not a fan of the way this is formulated. The first part is too broad a description of what this rule actually does. I think 
```suggestion
  This rule checks that the style attribute is not used to prevent increasing letter spacing by using `!important`, except if the 0.12 time the font size.
```

Author: I prefer keeping the description generic rather than putting out actual metric like 0.12 in the description. If others feel the same about this. I am willing to change.

Am I right in thinking that based on this [comment](https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1412#discussion_r484744367), you are not looking to approve this rule?

Reviewer: The reason I think this should change is because the first part of it is so generic, it might as well be used on other rules. This doesn't set the rule apart from other rules that could be written for this SC.

Reviewer 2: This description seems a little "chatty" to me. What is the problem with a more succinct rewording along the lines of what @WilcoFiers is proposing?

accessibility_requirements:
  wcag21:1.4.12: # Text Spacing (AA)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Jey Nandakumar
---

## Applicability

> This rule applies to any HTML element that is [visible][], for which the `style` attribute [declares][declared][][letter-spacing][] CSS property.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This rule applies to any HTML element that is [visible][], for which the `style` attribute [declares][declared] the [letter-spacing][] CSS property.
```

## Expectation 1

> For the test target's [letter-spacing][] property, one of the following is true:

Reviewer: This conditional list doesn't work well. You can see it if you try to declare what this list is about in each item, which is required in conditional lists:

```
- the [letter-spacing][] property has a [declared][] value specified via the `style` attribute does not have the [important flag][]; or
- the [letter-spacing][] property has a [computed][] value is at least `0.12` times its [computed][] [font-size][].
```

These two items are not about the same thing. One is about what's declared in the attribute, the other is about the computed property. I think the way this should be done is to write them out in a sentence, where the first thing is the requirement, and the second is an exception. Something like this:

```suggestion
For each test target, there is no [important flag][] on the [declared][] value of the [letter-spacing][] property in the `style` attribute, except if the [computed][] value is at least `0.12` times its [computed][] [font-size][].
```

Reviewer 3: I disagree. I think that "except" clauses read poorly and require more mental effort to understand than "or" clauses.
"A except if B" is the same logical construction as "A or B". Just written in a more convoluted way.

Reviewer 4: I must agree with @Jym77 on that. In fact, I've rewritten all such exceptions into opposite form for our internal versions of the rules as it makes things so much easier to digest.

Reviewer 5: Agree the current 'or' version is easier to read, though undecided if that is because of the use of the 'or' or the use of bullets. That said, bullets make for easier reading and probably work better with an 'or'.

Reviewer: That doesn't really change that this condition list doesn't include the subject; that it can't because it is about two different things.

Reviewer 5: The subject is the test target's letter-spacing property, so both declared value and computed value can be relevant for that.

Am I missing something?

Reviewer 5: Does this work...

For the test target, one of the following is true:

- the [declared][] value of the test target's [letter-spacing][] property, specified via the 'style' attribute, does not have the important flag; or
- the [computed][] value of the test target's [letter-spacing][] property is at least `0.12` times its [computed][] [font-size][].

Reviewer 6: I agree that it is easier to read the 'or' version. And I was going to suggest exactly the same that @EmmaJP did

Reviewer 3: If we absolutely want to repeat and frontload something:

> For the test target [letter-spacing][] property, one of the following is true:
> - the property has a [declared][] value specified via the `style` attribute without the important flag; or
> - the property has a [computed][] value of at least `0.12` times its [computed][] [font-size][].

But I don't think it reads really better. Notably because:
> For the test target [letter-spacing][] property, one of the following is true:
> - its [declared][] value specified via the `style` attribute does not have the important flag; or
> - its [computed][] value is at least `0.12` times its [computed][] [font-size][].

is more readable imho. Or @EmmaJP suggestion.

- the [declared][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property, specified via the `style` attribute, does not have the [important flag][]; or

> - the [computed][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property is at least `0.12` times its [computed][] [font-size][].

Reviewer: I disagree with the way this is expressed, but as it seems most folks prefer this I'll just leave it for others to approve.

Reviewer 4: It's literally in the specification:

> Each property declaration applied to an element contributes a declared value for that property associated with the element. 

https://drafts.csswg.org/css-cascade/#declared

Reviewer 2: @WilcoFiers how would you rephrase this, noting the CSS spec definitions that @kasperisager refers to above?

Reviewer 4: Here's an actual issue though: It's not clear how to handle `style` attributes where _multiple_ values are declared for the same property. Consider this:

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: 0.12; letter-spacing: 0.1;">
```

Such a `style` attribute doesn't have just _a_ declared value for the `letter-spacing` property, it has _several_. We want the last, valid declaration.

Author: Valid point @kasperisager. I think simply referencing to [cascaded value][https://www.w3.org/TR/css-cascade/#cascaded] instead of declared value for the first point in the expectation should solve for this. I have made the change accordingly.

Reviewer 3: 🤔 the cascaded value can come from somewhere else.
OTOH, not sure whether a the cascade can be won by something else when there is a declared value, so maybe this is indeed good…

## Assumptions

> If there is a mechanism available on the page by which letter spacing can be adjusted, failing this rule might not mean [success criterion 1.4.12 Text spacing](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#text-spacing) is not satisfied.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There is no mechanism available on the page to adjust letter spacing. If there is such a mechanism, failing this rule might not mean [success criterion 1.4.12 Text spacing](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#text-spacing) is not satisfied.
```
The assumption is the first sentence. The "If" sentence is a fact that is always true, not an assumption.

```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

This `div` element has a `letter-spacing` of `1.5px !important` (equals `0.09375em`) which is below to the recommended minimum, given the specified font size is 16 pixels.

```html
<html>
	<style>
		body {
			font-size: 16px;
		}
	</style>

	<body>
		<div style="letter-spacing: 1.5px !important;">
			The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

This `p` element is not [visible][] because of `display: none`.

```html
<p style="display: none">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

This text is not [visible][] because it is positioned off screen.

```html
<p style="position: absolute; top: -999em">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

This `body` element does not have a `style` attribute specified.

```html
<html>
	<style>
		body {
			letter-spacing: 50px;
		}
	</style>

	<body>
		The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 4

> This `p` element has a [letter-spacing][] of `24px` specified via the style attribute, but does not have the [important flag][].

Reviewer 3: The lack of `!important` is not relevant for the Applicability anymore. This should become a Passed Example instead.

Reviewer 5: I agree. I was going to ask if an example with too small letter-spacing and without the !important flag should be included in the passed examples.

Reviewer 5: Also, I'm not a fan of using fixed units in the examples, as that's not really good practice in regard accessibility. A `body { font-size: 1rem }` defaults as 16px in most browsers, and is possibly a better alternative for the examples.

---
id: 24afc2
name: Letter spacing in `style` attributes is not `!important`
rule_type: atomic
description: |

> 	This rule checks that the `style` attribute is not used to prevent adjusting `letter- spacing` by using `!important`, except if it's at least `0.12` times the font size.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
	This rule checks that the `style` attribute is not used to prevent adjusting `letter-spacing` by using `!important`, except if it's at least `0.12` times the font size.
```

accessibility_requirements:
  wcag21:1.4.12: # Text Spacing (AA)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Jey Nandakumar
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML element that is [visible][], for which the `style` attribute [declares][declared] the [letter-spacing][] CSS property.

## Expectation

For the test target, one of the following is true:

> - the [cascaded][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property, specified via the `style` attribute, does not have the [important flag][]; or

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- the [cascaded][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property, if specified via the `style` attribute, does not have the [important flag][]; or
```

This applies to the other rules as well. Since the cascaded value may come from a declaration not in the `style` attribute, we're only interested in the important flag of the cascaded value _if_ it comes from a declaration in the `style` attribute.

Reviewer 6: I don't think this is enough. 

```html
<html>
 	<style>
 		.noSpace {
 			letter-spacing: 0.01em !important;
 		}
 	</style>

 	<body>
 		<div class="noSpace" style="letter-spacing: 0.12em">
 			The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
 		</div>
 	</body>
 </html>
```

We can't say anything about condition 1 because the cascaded value was not specified through the `style` attribute. Condition 2 is false. We need condition 1 to pass this example. I guess we need to use the declared value in condition 1 instead of the cascaded value.

Reviewer 4: Good point!

> I guess we need to use the declared value in condition 1 instead of the cascaded value.

Then we're back to square 1 though 🙈 The issue is that there can be multiple declared values and we want the one that wins cascade, if any. Something like this might work to ensure totality:

> - the cascaded value of its `letter-spacing` property is either not specified through the `style` attribute or does not have the important flag set; [...]

Reviewer 6: Yes, I believe that works 👍

## Background

- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.12: Text Spacing](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/text-spacing.html)
- [CSS Text Module Level 3 - Spacing](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-text-3/#spacing)
- [CSS Visual formatting model details](https://drafts.csswg.org/css2/visudet.html)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

This `div` element has a `letter-spacing` of `0.12em` which is equal to the recommended minimum given the specified font size is `1em`.

```html
<html>
	<style>
		body {
			font-size: 1em;
		}
	</style>

	<body>
		<div style="letter-spacing: 0.12em !important">
			The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
		</div>
	</body>
</html>
```

#### Passed Example 2

> This `p` element has a `letter-spacing` of `24px` specified via the style attribute, which is above to the recommended minimum given the specified font size is 16 pixels.

Reviewer 6: Was it the goal to have a 24px letter spacing with a 16px font? The spacing is larger than the font :-) I'm not really sure that this is accessible to some people.
2px for letter spacing would be enough for passing the rule

> ---

Reviewer 3: Big problem with this rule. See https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1412#issuecomment-733606665

accessibility_requirements:
  wcag21:1.4.12: # Text Spacing (AA)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Jean-Yves Moyen
    - Jey Nandakumar
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML element that is [visible][] and for which the `style` attribute [declares][declared] the [letter-spacing][] CSS property.

## Expectation

For each test target, one of the following is true:

- **not important**: the [computed][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property is not [important][]; or
- **wide enough**: the [computed][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property is at least 0.12 times the [computed][] value of its [font-size][] property; or
- **cascade**: the [cascaded][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property is not a value [declared][] in its `style` attribute.

## Assumptions

- There is no mechanism available on the page to adjust [letter-spacing][]. If there is such a mechanism, it is possible to fail this rule while [Success Criterion 1.4.12 Text Spacing][sc1412] is still satisfied.

> - This rule assumes that WCAG's meaning for the "Letter spacing style property" is the value of the CSS `letter-spacing` property rather than the actual space between letters. The value of the CSS property is _added_ to whichever spacing already exist (for example, due to kerning). Thus, the actual space between letters can be larger than the value of the `letter-spacing` property. If [Success Criterion 1.4.12 Text Spacing][sc1412] is concerned by the actual space between letters, then this rule may fail (with the `letter-spacing` property being too small) while the Success Criterion is still satisfied (with the actual space being enough).

Reviewer 6: > If [Success Criterion 1.4.12 Text Spacing][sc1412] is concerned by the actual space between letters

We might want to reach out for the AG also to clarify this issue

Reviewer 3: When writing this, I had a discussion with @WilcoFiers who was firmly into that interpretation, hence the result. Indeed, it might be worth reaching out to AG:
https://github.com/w3c/wcag/issues/1556

Reviewer 3: Early feedbacks seem to agree with this interpretation 😁

CSS specifications define each declaration as being either [important][] (if is as the `!important` annotation) or [normal][]. Given that `normal` is also a keyword for this property, and that `!important` is wider known that this distinction, this rule rather uses "[important][]"/"not [important][]" to avoid confusion.

- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.12: Text Spacing](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/text-spacing.html)
- [CSS Text Module Level 3 - Spacing](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-text-3/#spacing)
- [CSS Visual formatting model details](https://drafts.csswg.org/css2/visudet.html)

> 
> Some examples use a fixed font size to demonstrate specific aspects of the rule (notably in order to provide a [computed][] value for the property). Some Passed Examples set the `letter-spacing` property below the minimum, but do so in a way that can be overridden by styles with [author origin][]. These are however not very good practices and should be avoided.

Reviewer: I don't think this needs to be here. I don't think there's anything "not very good" about having normal letter-spacing. If anything, the bad practice is writing things in such a way that users can't control font properties. Having wide letter-spacing isn't great, but it somewhat mitigates the need for users to control that prop themselves. I'm not sure we need to put that in the rule though. WCAG says it's OK, we don't need to contradict that.

```suggestion
```

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: normal !important">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Failed Example 4

This `p` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` of 0.

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: initial !important">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

There is no HTML element.

```svg
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"></svg>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

This `p` element is not [visible][] because of `display: none`.

```html
<p style="display: none; letter-spacing: 0.1em !important;">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 3

This `p` element is not [visible][] because it is positioned off-screen.

```html
<p style="position: absolute; top: -999em; letter-spacing: 0.1em !important;">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 4

This `p` element does not have a `style` attribute specified.

```html
<p>
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

> #### Inapplicable Example 5

Reviewer: Still this.

> #### Inapplicable Example 5

Reviewer: What does 4 test that 5 doesn't? Neither of them have a style attribute with a letter-spacing property.

---
id: 24afc2
name: Letter spacing in `style` attributes is not `!important`
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that the `style` attribute is not used to prevent adjusting `letter-spacing` by using `!important`, except if it's at least 0.12 times the font size.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag21:1.4.12: # Text Spacing (AA)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - CSS Styling
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Jean-Yves Moyen
    - Jey Nandakumar
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any HTML element that is [visible][] and for which the `style` attribute [declares][declared] the [letter-spacing][] CSS property.

## Expectation

For each test target, one of the following is true:

> - **above minimum**: the [computed][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property is at least 0.12 times the [computed][] value of its [font-size][] property; or
> - **not important**: the [computed][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property is not [important][]; or

Reviewer: Would prefer we turn these around. The base case scenario is for someone to not have used !important. I think we should start with that.

```suggestion
- **not important**: the [computed][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property is not [important][]; or
- **above minimum**: the [computed][] value of its [letter-spacing][] property is at least 0.12 times the [computed][] value of its [font-size][] property; or
```

- This rule assumes that when inter-letters space is changed because of justification, the `letter-spacing` property is not changed. Therefore, whether a text is justified or not doesn't change the result of this rule. Note that justifying text is a failure of [Success Criterion 1.4.8 Visual Presentation][sc148].

## Accessibility Support

While some assistive technologies are able to set [user origin][] or [user agent origin][] styles, others, such as browser extensions, are only able to set styles with the [author origin][]. Such assistive technologies cannot create styles "winning" the [cascade sort][] over a `style` attribute with an [important][] declaration. If accessibility support does not include assistive technologies that override [letter-spacing][] through [author origin][], this rule should not be used.

## Background

> When a style from [author origin][] is [declared][] in the `style` attribute with an [important][] declaration, it "wins" the [cascade sort] over any other style from [author origin][], i.e. it cannot be overridden by any of these. On the other hand, if such a style is [declared][] in a style sheet, it can still "lose" the [cascade sort][] to declarations with higher [specificity][] or simply coming from a later style sheet (such as ones injected by assistive technologies). This rule ensures that the element is not in the first case and that the style can be overridden by users, unless it is already above the minimum recommended threshold. Styles (with an [important][] declaration) that are declared with the [user origin][] or [user agent origin][] can win the [cascade sort][] over styles with the [author origin][]. Therefore, if the assistive technology can produce these styles, the rule is not needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a style is [declared][] in the `style` attribute with an [important][] declaration, it "wins" the [cascade sort] over any other style from [author origin][], i.e. it cannot be overridden by any of these. On the other hand, if such a style is [declared][] in a style sheet, it can still "lose" the [cascade sort][] to declarations with higher [specificity][] or simply coming from a later style sheet (such as ones injected by assistive technologies). This rule ensures that the element is not in the first case and that the style can be overridden by users, unless it is already above the minimum recommended threshold. Styles that are declared with the [user origin][] win the [cascade sort][] over styles with the [author origin][].
```

> CSS specifications define each declaration as being either [important][] (if is as the `!important` annotation) or [normal][]. Given that `normal` is also a keyword for this property, and that `!important` is wider known that this distinction, this rule rather uses "[important][]"/"not [important][]" to limit confusion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CSS specifications define each declaration as being either [important][] (if is as the `!important` annotation) or [normal][]. Given that `normal` is also a keyword for this property, and that `!important` is wider known that this distinction, this rule rather uses "[important][]"/"not [important][]" to avoid confusion.
```

- [Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.12: Text Spacing](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/text-spacing.html)
- [CSS Text Module Level 3 - Spacing](https://www.w3.org/TR/css-text-3/#spacing)
- [CSS Visual formatting model details](https://drafts.csswg.org/css2/visudet.html)

Some examples use a fixed font size to demonstrate specific aspects of the rule (notably in order to provide a [computed][] value for the property). This is in general not a very good practice and should be avoided.

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

> This `p` element has a **not [important][]** [computed][] `letter-spacing`, so styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may override it. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.

Reviewer: Much of what you're saying is already explained in the background / expectations. This should be enough:

```suggestion
This `p` element has a **not [important][]** [computed][] `letter-spacing`.
```

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: 0.1em">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 2

This `p` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` of 0.15 time the font size, which is **above minimum**.

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: 0.15em !important">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 3

> This `p` element has a [computed][] [letter-spacing][] of `3px`, which is **above minimum** (of `3px`).

Reviewer: 3px isn't "above" 3px.  This "above minimum" is not a good label. I also don't think this should be bold. Our example descriptions shouldn't need to reference the expectations.
```suggestion
This `p` element has a [computed][] [letter-spacing][] of `3px`, which is sufficiently wide that it should not need to be customised.
```

</p>
```

#### Passed Example 3

> This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The latest wins the [cascade sort][]. It has a value of `0.15em`, more than 0.12 times the font size and therefore matches the **above minimum** condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The latest wins the [cascade sort][]. It has a value of `0.15em`, more than 0.12 times the font size.
```

</style>

<p style="letter-spacing: 3px !important">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 4

> This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The latest wins the [cascade sort][]. It has a value of `0.15em`, and is **above minimum**.

Reviewer: Same as above, don't think this should be referencing the bulleted lists as though these are things a reader will know off the top of their head.

```suggestion
This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The latest wins the [cascade sort][]. It has a value of `0.15em`, and is sufficiently wide sufficiently wide that it should not need to be customised.
```

> This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The one which is [important][] wins the [cascade sort][]. It has a value of `0.15em`, more than 0.12 times the font size and therefore matches the **above minimum** condition.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The one which is [important][] wins the [cascade sort][]. It has a value of `0.15em`, more than 0.12 times the font size.
```

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: 0.15em !important; letter-spacing: 0.1em">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> This `p` element has a not [important][] [computed][] `letter-spacing`, thus it matches the **not important** condition. Even though the value is too small, styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may win the [cascade sort][] and override it, thus this may satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.12 Text Spacing][sc1412] and does not fail this rule. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.

Reviewer: Kinda think this is enough. The rest is explained in other parts of the rule. This just feels a little repetitive. I would also suggest we make this the first example. The "default" case should but that it isn't important.

```suggestion
This `p` element has a not [important][] [computed][] `letter-spacing`.
```

Reviewer 3: I'm always a bit uncomfortable giving bad practice in a Passed Example without an explicit warning… Tried to terse it a bit, let me know if that's OK.

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: 0.15em !important; letter-spacing: 0.1em">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 6

This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The one from the style sheet wins the [cascade sort][] because it is [important][]. Since it is not [declared][] via the `style` attribute, it matches the **cascade** condition. Note that neither the **wide enough**, nor the **not important** conditions are matched. Styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may override this style. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.

```html
<style>
	p {
		letter-spacing: 0.1em !important;
	}
</style>

<p style="letter-spacing: 0.15em">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 7

> Both this `p` and `span` elements match the **not important** condition. For the `span`, the [cascaded][] value is `inherit !important`, thus the [computed][] value is the [inherited][] value, that is the [computed][] value of its parent, and it is not [important][]. Note that neither the **wide enough**, nor the **cascade** conditions are matched. Styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may override this style. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [computed][] `letter-spacing` property of the `span` element is inherited from the `p` element. Because the [computed][] `letter-spacing` property of the `p` element is not [important][], the `span` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` property that is not [important][], even though the [declared][] `letter-spacing` property is.
```

> This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property (in the style sheet and in the `style` attribute). The one from the style sheet wins the [cascade sort][] because it is [important][]. Since it is not [declared][] via the `style` attribute, it matches the **cascade** condition. Note that neither the **above minimum** (because the [computed][] value is only 0.1 times the font size), nor the **not important** (because the [computed][] value comes from the style sheet and is [important][]) conditions are matched. Even though the value is too small, styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may win the [cascade sort][] and override it, thus this may satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.12 Text Spacing][sc1412] and does not fail this rule. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.

Reviewer: I think we can trim this down a bit.

```suggestion
This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The one from the style sheet wins the [cascade sort][] because it is [important][]. Since it is not [declared][] via the `style` attribute, it matches the **cascade** condition. Note that neither the **above minimum**, nor the **not important** conditions are matched. Even though the value is too small, styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may win the [cascade sort][] and override it.
```

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: 0.1em">
	<span style="letter-spacing: inherit !important;">
		The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
	</span>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 8

> Both this `p` and `span` elements match the **not important** condition. For the `span`, the [cascaded][] value is `unset !important`, which is equivalent as `inherit` since it is an inherited property, thus the [computed][] value is the [inherited][] value, that is the [computed][] value of its parent, and it is not [important][]. Styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may override this style. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [computed][] `letter-spacing` property of the `span` element is `unset`, which causes it to become inherited from the `p` element. Because the [computed][] `letter-spacing` property of the `p` element is not [important][], the `span` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` property that is not [important][], even though the [declared][] `letter-spacing` property is.
```

> Both this `p` and `span` elements match the **not important** condition. For the `span`, the [cascaded][] value is `inherit !important`, thus the [computed][] value is the [inherited][] value, that is the [computed][] value of its parent, and it is not [important][]. Note that neither the **above minimum** (because the [computed][] value is only 0.1 times the font size), nor the **cascade** (because the [cascaded][] value comes from the `style` attribute) conditions are matched. Even though the value is too small, styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may win the [cascade sort][] and override it, thus this may satisfy [Success Criterion 1.4.12 Text Spacing][sc1412] and does not fail this rule. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both this `p` and `span` elements match the **not important** condition. For the `span`, the [cascaded][] value is `inherit !important`, thus the [computed][] value is the [inherited][] value, that is the [computed][] value of its parent, and it is not [important][]. Note that neither the **above minimum**, nor the **cascade** conditions are matched. Even though the value is too small, styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may win the [cascade sort][] and override it. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.
```

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: 0.1em">
	<span style="letter-spacing: unset !important;">
		The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
	</span>
</p>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

> This `p` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` of `1.6px` (assuming a default `medium` font size of `16px`) which is below the recommended minimum.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This `p` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` of 0.1 times the fonts which is below the recommended minimum.
```

Reviewer 3: I debated than one with myself for quite some times before deciding to go that way 🤔 

My reasoning is that the Expectation is about the computed style, so the description should also be. Which I agree is annoying in forcing to assume the default value even though the example would fail anyway…

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: 0.1em !important">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This `p` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` of `2px` which is only 0.1 times the font size (`20px`), thus below the recommended minimum.

```html
<style>
	p {
		font-size: 20px;
	}
</style>

<p style="letter-spacing: 2px !important">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Failed Example 3

This `p` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` of 0.

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: normal !important">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

#### Failed Example 4

This `p` element has a [computed][] `letter-spacing` of 0.

```html
<p style="letter-spacing: initial !important">
	The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
</p>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

There is no HTML element.

```svg
<svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg"></svg>

> ```

Reviewer: I don't think SVG is necessary in this.

Reviewer 3: I think most (all?) our rules targeting HTML elements have a non-HTML element has inapplicable example.

There's a bit of the same with the two invisible examples where maybe one would be enough…

Reviewer: Not that I'm aware of.... Rules that apply to HTML elements have SVG inapplicable examples. But I think this is a little different.

I do think the two invisible examples are needed. Off-screen is fairly different from display:none.

Reviewer: Fair, I suppose... But then shouldn't this have a text node with a style attribute with a letter-spacing property? Otherwise what are you testing?

</html>
```

#### Passed Example 2

This `p` element has a `letter-spacing` of `24px` specified via the style attribute, which is above to the recommended minimum given the specified font size is 16 pixels.

```html
<html>
	<style>
		body {
			font-size: 16px;
		}
	</style>

	<body>
		<p style="letter-spacing: 24px;">
			The toy brought back fond memories of being lost in the rain forest.
		</p>
	</body>
</html>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

> This `div` element has a `letter-spacing` of `1.5px !important` (equals `0.09375em`) which is below to the recommended minimum given the specified font size is `1em`.

Reviewer 3: I guess the size of the `div` should also use relative units now that `font-size` does.

Reviewer 3: I'll let @EmmaJP decide on that since she was the one who requested relative units in the first place (https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1412#pullrequestreview-466875191)

Reviewer 5: I think for this failed example it certainly demonstrates why those fixed units are a problem. I'm unsure if using different units for the letter-spacing and font-size muddies the waters or not. 

Certainly for an examples using the relative units, we should probably clarify that at default zoom 1em would be 16px.

#### Passed Example 6

> This `p` element has two [declared][] values for its `letter-spacing` property. The one from the style sheet wins the [cascade sort][] because it is [important][]. Since it is not [declared][] via the `style` attribute, it matches the **cascade** condition. Note that neither the **wide enough**, nor the **not important** conditions are matched. Styles with [author origin][] declared by assistive technologies may override this style. This is nonetheless bad practice and sufficient spacing should be used.

Reviewer 3: > This, and several other descriptions are still referencing the expectation, assuming the reader will know them. Please explain what about this passes, instead of having call-backs to the expectation.

Not referring to the labels of listed conditions is in direct contradiction with our rule design document.
https://act-rules.github.io/pages/design/rule-design/#listed-conditions (last but one bullet)
> Refer to the labels of the condition in the test case description to make the link explicit.
